Friends, last month my friend's car met with an
accident and it was costing him around 7-8000 rupees. So
we will go and make an
insurance claim.
Why should we pay it? There
we came to know that there was
some filing charge of around 1000 to 1200 rupees.
Okay, we said we will pay it. Then we did
some more research and we came to know that
if we make a claim of 7-8 thousand rupees, then
our no claim bonus will be lost. The
car was about 3 years old and there was
no claim on the car for the last 3 years.
Further, it was found out that if you have not made a claim in the
last few years or you have
never made a claim, then you were getting some no
claim bonus. We came to know how much it is. So
that local amount will be lost
because you are making a claim here.
Okay, we said okay, there will be some other
loss due to which you will not get the bonus.
Companies must be giving a lot of bonus. Then when we
sat down to calculate, we came to know that
if we pay the money  So we are
in profit, that is,
if I give you seventy-five thousand rupees from my pocket for
repairing,
you are in profit
and I will also tell you this thing that if you
ever have to make a claim, then in which situations
you should make a claim, there are some
three-four things on which you have to pay attention, first of all
we understand what
is NC i.e. what is No Claim Bonus, so
friends, whenever you buy a new car, you have to
buy insurance with it, the
government has said so, so we also
buy insurance, now whether it is comprehensive, zero
deposit or whatever you have bought, you have made an
advance etc., you
buy a big insurance package, you
pay a lot of money for it, then
this thing is sure that if
anything happens to your car, then the insurance
company will give you a claim, that is, your car will be
repaired for free, this is a big relief for us, it is a
relief for us, but it has been a year and nothing has happened to your
car, then you mean your
money is lost because you did
not do anything to it, you did not even
take out a claim for the money, okay then you  You renewed for the second year,
then a year passed, you did
not spend any money, nothing happened to you,
but friends, what happened during this time when you were
renewing for the second year, because you had
not made a single claim in one year, so
when you are renewing for the second year,
you get a no-claim bonus
and this bonus is approximately 20%, let's say
we had insured your car for
20000 including everything, so
now you get a bonus of ₹4000 here, so
your next renewal cost will be
reduced a little, the insurance will have to be
kept with the company, so you
see, you got NC next year, if you do
not make a claim again, then it will increase by 5%, which
means you will save more money, and the
next year it will increase further, which means every year
you can get a very good discount in the premium, you can get
NC, if it is a 3 year
old car, then its
NC cost is approximately ₹8000,
okay, if I make a claim then this
I will be fined Rs 70,000 and the
file charges that I am paying since my time,
Rs 12,000 for claiming insurance,
that is going to
cost me around Rs 10,000
for Rs 7,000. So now you think, you will not
know immediately that your insurance is not
going to be the same, but when will you know when you get the
insurance renewed, then you will have to pay
Rs 8,000 extra because
you have just made a claim,
now this cycle will start again, this
cycle will start again, so you have 5%
left, when will it reach the middle and when will it
reach 25%, there is no guarantee
and I would also like to tell you that if you have an
NCD on your car and you have never made a claim
and now you are going to buy a new car, then
you can do the NCD of this car
while taking insurance of the new car as well,
meaning you
get a bonus of 50% on the new car as well,
Inshallah, so this thing you
Now keep in mind what things you keep in mind,
first of all the total repair cost of the thing, you
will say brother I should not have taken insurance like this
then why am I getting it done, I will
tell you what is the total cost of repair,
you should check that of your vehicle, if the company is
saying that it will cost ₹8000, after that
you count the NC, brother
how much will your CP be, calculate a little how much will
come out, if after adding the value and file
charges, it is going beyond your total repair cost, that is, it is going to be
10-12000,
then spend 70000, if you have incurred a
big expense on your car, 30-35
thousand rupees, 40 thousand rupees,
then you will not have to play because
then what will you do by spending 10000, so
you have to calculate how much NC you are getting back, how much
you are losing on file charges etc., whichever is
less of the two,
you should go by that, so in this way you
can save money, now tell me one more thing  I will tell you
friends, many people buy a car and to
keep the car new they
repair even small scratches and they
also make a claim for repairing it, they make an insurance
claim, I have seen many people saying
that brother, yes the car had hit from here
because we were new drivers, we
bought a new car, we were learning a bit, we
stuck it to the wall, another car and for 10
days and a big scratch has appeared, now the
cost of repairing the car will be around 5000
rupees, so we took the claim because our
car is not in zero type, it has
cashless facility in it, whatever they have,
we took it, we do this because you do
not want to keep the car,
if you keep making claims for a long time, you make claims five times
in a year, you make claims again and again, then the
insurance company comes to know
that you are doing only this, then it will be
dangerous for giving you insurance next time,
many will hesitate in understanding the policy
and will trouble a lot for the claim also, you
will see that people's cars
remain at the service centre for months, the clamps are
not cleared, that is why the claim
Use it at the right place, do
not use it for small things so that you can
maintain good relations with the insurance company and if you
buy vehicles in future too, then you get good policies. Let me
tell you friends,
if your vehicle is below thousand cc,
friends, how much is the file charge? The file
charge is if the small vehicle
is thousand cc or 1200 cc, then the
file charge is between Rs. 12-1500. It
will also depend on the insurance company
how much they are charging and if your vehicle
is above 200cc, then you will have to pay Rs. 2000 to 2500
for the file charge, so
keep this in mind while calculating.
Rest, this is such small information, if you liked the
video, then definitely like and subscribe to the channel and
tell me how you liked the video, thank you.